##Exception handling:

Syntax errors:
Syntax errors are errors encountered while parsing. There errors are caught during the program compilation/interpretation.

	>>> if name ='tanigai'
  	File "<stdin>", line 1
    	if name ='tanigai'
            ^
	SyntaxError: invalid syntax

Exception are unexpected error that can occur during execution of a program. Even if a statement or expression is syntactically correct, it may cause an error when an attempt is made to execute it. Errors detected during execution are called exceptions and are not unconditionally fatal


	>>> 1/0
	Traceback (most recent call last):
  	File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
	ZeroDivisionError: integer division or modulo by zero

Example:

	file_handle = open("python1.txt",'r')
	data = file_handle.readline()
	print data
	file_handle.close()

If the file python.txt is not present in the directory or path, the following run time error is thrown

	Traceback (most recent call last):
  	File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
	IOError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'python.txt'

"IOError" is the type of exception thrown while opening an non-existent file.



Exception handling mechanism in Python provides mean to capture these run time error and also provide useful debug information of the event. 

During exception handling, the state of the program can be captured by a function called exception handler. Based on the state of the program, the handler can choose to halt or continue the program.

Python can catch and raise exception

###Catching exception:
We can catch exception using the sytax.

	try:
		# Have the block of code which you anticipate to throw some error or exception. 
		On successful execution, the else and finally are executed. On exception, except and finally are executed.

	except:
		# anticipate possible exception that can occur by the execution of 'try' block and handle them here. 
		There can be multiple except statements and they get executed based on the exception thrown. 
		Multiple exceptions can be handled by a singe except statement

	else:
		# this block is executed when there is no exception thrown. 
		Place code that you want to executed when a successful 'try' block has executed.
		Exercise caution - programmer tend to write code just after exception and it may lead a set of statement execution even after the try block throws exception

	finally:
		# this block is executed irrespective the exception happened or not. 
		This is a good place to have the clean up codes like file closing, process termination or anything that got created in the 'try' phase 

Example:

	try:
    	file_handle = open("python1.txt",'r')
	except IOError e:
    	print "Could not open the file", str(e)
	else:
		data = file_handle.readline()
		print data
		file_handle.close()
	finally:
      print "complete file related operation…"


###Multiple except clause:

A try clause can contain multiple except statement. But at most one except statement will be executed based on the type of error.

	try:
		# statement to execute
	except A:
		#Handling exception of type A
	except B:
		#Handling exception of type B
	except c:
		#Handling exception of type C
	else:
		#Execute this block if no exception is thrown
	finally:
		#excute this block in all cases (exception or no-exception thrown)

only one exception will be handled. It will exit on the occurence of first exception. 

Question #15: In python 2.6 or earlier, the code will print error type 1 if accessSecureSystem raises an exception of either AccessError type or SecurityError type
	
	try:
  		accessSecureSystem()

	except AccessError, SecurityError:
  		print "error type 1"

continueWork()
	true - incorrect
	false
description:

The except statement will only catch exceptions of type AccessError and name the exception object SecurityError. In order to catch both you can use a tuple like this: except (AccessError, SecurityError). Python has been changed in version 3.0 so that the syntax shown in the question will actually catch both types.


Exception handlers don’t just handle exceptions if they occur immediately in the try clause, but also if they occur inside functions that are called (even indirectly) in the try clause. For example:

	>>>
	>>> def this_fails():
	...     x = 1/0
	...
	>>> try:
	...     this_fails()
	... except ZeroDivisionError as err:
	...     print('Handling run-time error:', err)
	...
	Handling run-time error: division by zero

The error indicator consists of three Python objects corresponding to the Python variables sys.exc_type, sys.exc_value and sys.exc_traceback. API functions exist to interact with the error indicator in various ways. There is a separate error indicator for each thread.


Python 
BaseException	
Exception	(1)
StandardError	(1)
ArithmeticError	(1)
LookupError	(1)
AssertionError	 
AttributeError	 
EOFError	 
EnvironmentError	(1)
FloatingPointError	 
IOError	 
ImportError	 
IndexError	 
KeyError	 
KeyboardInterrupt	 
MemoryError	 
NameError	 
NotImplementedError	 
OSError	 
OverflowError	 
ReferenceError	(2)
RuntimeError	 
SyntaxError	 
SystemError	 
SystemExit	 
TypeError	 
ValueError	 
WindowsError	(3)
ZeroDivisionError	 

References:
http://www.python-course.eu/exception_handling.php
https://docs.python.org/2/library/exceptions.html#exceptions.BaseException
